you might ask how well the economy is
doing but you don't have to look very
far all you need to do is ask the middle
class you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you if you want to
have a strong economy you need a strong
middle class this is extremely important
and you watch this in developing nations
where there is a big divide in between
the Haves and the hav kns the rich and
the poor you realize this in an
exaggerated fashion so we look today at
what's happening and it's very clear to
me that there are circumstances right
now that are evident when you increase
interest rates after leaving them so low
for so long you run into some problems
when we look at a boom it usually ends
in a bust it's not a healthy thing to
create an artificial boom and bust as
they do but that's the business cycle
that they've decided to create you are
the one that has to face the music when
they decide to pull the plug not too fun
in today's video we're going to look at
the bankruptcies we're going to talk
about the layoffs and of course what the
Walmart CEO had to say when we do that
we're going to be able to realize what's
happening on the horizon and make the
best decisions are you interested well
let's begin first thing we can see that
the layoffs and bankruptcies are piling
up in the
logistics sector amid a shocking
downturn now when I look at this I think
of a few things if you remember during
2020 it was very clear that everything
was in a shortage and you saw this
consistently we need more we need more
oh my goodness we need more trucks we
need more ships we need more people at
the Port we need more containers there
were they were trucks sitting on streets
blocking people's driveway ways because
they didn't know where to put it all it
it was crazy there weren't enough people
at the porch suddenly we have gone
complete 180 right not just in price but
the actual job remember the jobs truck
drivers were being offered
$150,000 and More in many cases that is
very unusual to see what has happened
and now the complete opposite I mean
this is wild we never seen anything like
this what happened it was something
interesting okay because you know if you
look 2016 all the way to 2019 you would
say it's fairly normal in what happened
supply and demand factors all that but
as soon as we got into 2020 there were
some issues because people stopped
buying what they were buying before and
they started to buy you know the hand
sanitizers and all that stuff and it was
a huge surge in fact my mentor in the
Amazon space and e-commerce space he
said you know he was starting his own
business selling all these things
because of a partner of his wanted to
get into the sanitizers you know take
advantage of the trend and he said that
he could not even acquire small plastic
bottles it would he could he would
looked everywhere where did we get small
plastic bottles impossible so they had
to do it in a big jugs that was all that
was available at that time at the peak
of the market think about that you can't
even get it manufactured because the
manufacturing was so busy so backlogged
that there was nobody available to get
that done that was the situation we're
not buying yoga pants from Lululemon
were buying ridiculous amounts of hand
sanitizer and then the ships were filled
with all that stuff that's 2020 that's
what was going on and then suddenly Lulu
lemon says hey we want we we want this
we want a part of this we want to ship
stuff too we need that okay and so all
of this stuff started going onto those
ships eventually okay so the the
millions and billions of yoga Pence were
starting to go on these ships and get
carried over but there was an issue
because by the time they made it over
nobody wanted to buy it they ordered so
much because of the delay they said no
no you know our normal order of like a
million of those no no let's do 10
million because it's going to take
forever to get this manufactured and so
there was this huge surge a massive
Surge and it was met at the end of the
day with deflation and so they started
to liquidate a lot of that and so there
have been many companies whether it's
ghost and there's there's other
companies that if you're in e-commerce
space you know about this and if you're
on my Sunday live sessions uh it's part
of the mentorship group what I call it
and you know they know all about that
there are a lot of these companies that
are liquidating things the new companies
have popped up like ghost as a result of
this taking advantage of these companies
that couldn't sell their yoga pants to
the women that needed it okay or or
didn't need it anymore so what do we
have we got a big problem now I
explained all of that I think it's
important that we understand the history
and how we got here do you appreciate
that information if you do hit that
thumbs up I appreciate when you do that
you can see that there are layoffs
everywhere City Group cutting over 300
senior manager roles in the latest
restructuring oh don't worry when AI
starts to come in it's going to be an
even bigger problem media jobs slashed
amid soft ad Market ads are one uh Bell
weather that you should be paying
attention to by the way ads are the one
because and by the way it makes it
cheaper to start advertising so it's not
necessarily a bad thing but anyway
deflation could be coming this holiday
season that's according to Walmart's CEO
looking at it that prices have fallen I
don't think so especially on the general
merchandise on some key grocery items as
well yet the Discounter struck a
cautious tone saying that consumers will
continue to watch their spending and
that has been seen everywhere okay I'm
seeing people that make over 200 Grand a
year saying I got to watch out what's
going on I got to watch my spending I
know that to be the case Okay I from
people all over the world dealing with
the exact same thing business owners and
not business owners who are saying now's
the time I'm going to be cautious it
doesn't necessarily mean that they're
going and taking all their cash and
their stuff in under mattress not
necessarily but this is what people and
businesses are doing right now okay it's
a different world when you increase
interest rates Walmart consumers no
longer willing to pay whatever prices of
goods are falling broadly as inflation
shifted to service services and that is
clearly the case a lot of business up
right down left Center they're all
charging way too in my opinion way too
much for what they offer there's no
question about that okay and you know
you could see there's a lot of charts in
this you could see that whether it's
import price index consumer goods
excluding Autos has declined from the
peak but uh you know you you try and
tell me where you see that as as a a
person shopping I mean it's just never
around the CPI for food at home index
has increased okay and that's the one
like you can't get around that yes you
can grow your food but how many people
do that today very few so that means the
inflation is being felt by these people
more than ever before and I worry about
that so we need to be growing our own
food if we can we need to be taking
these steps to you know to shop at the
right places where before yeah maybe I
can get away with it now they're
tightening the screws so we got to make
the right choices I've seen in in many
cases different supermarkets that will
charge almost double almost double what
you can get at a different Supermarket
um depends on the quality is a factor
too but shop at the right place I think
that's important okay I've covered this
in a recent video didn't get many views
but how to save money on on food I I
covered in the entire video was all
about that and so anyway you haven't
seen it definitely check that out you
could look at a video showing a moment
of a mob of 40 people looting a FedEx
truck while it's stopped at a red light
so I'm seeing this I'm seeing car
jackings I'm seeing uh break and
enterings there's all kinds of stuff
sadly that's going on right now um
generally no repercussions for this but
it tells you something and that is also
because of this hunger in America is an
abating and in 2023 safety nets meant to
catch people at the most most vulnerable
are seeing spikes in visits compared to
last year the food banks are going wild
what I'm trying to say here is that for
a lot of people they're in a worse
economic situation than they were before
I'm not condoning any of that behavior
okay it's going on everywhere it's it's
crazy it's sad but what I'm saying is
that people the stats are showing up and
people are hurting people are suffering
and there's nothing being done from the
government level that's going to support
you it's not going to be the case you
food are food banks going to really help
it's like the last line of the fense no
we need to tackle this thing from where
it starts and that's the money printing
that they've been doing for so many
years prior if they really wanted to
stop inflation if they really truly
wanted to stop inflation they could have
done that before before they would have
increased interest rates dramatically
caused a recession a dramatic recession
and then it would have come back up in a
short period of time we have an example
of this very few an example of this in
1920 I didn't say 1929 in 1920 if you
have read my first book you would know
about the depression of 1920 and what
guess when it ended
1921 okay and what it was all about was
cutting government spending stopping all
of their nonsense policies getting
things back getting people to spend
getting them to feel more confident and
of course it happened very quickly now
was a different scenario than 1929
different scenario than today but the
point is they're making a lot of wrong
decisions and that is leading up to a
very different world from what we have
seen right now I mean it's it's it
should not be like this look if you are
in Dire Straits if you need some
assistance that's why I hooked up with
money pickle money pickle helps you out
of that money pickle okay so I hooked up
with them because I needed somebody
there who could be a cfp who could be a
fiduciary to somebody you go in you
click this link that's all my I'll put
in the description you click there you
go over you you schedule um a meeting
with them okay and you can get free
advice from them directly okay that's
why I hooked up with them because it can
give you that information for free to
help your scenario hopefully so that you
don't run into the same circumstance of
so many people that are dealing with
these things today okay so the link is
in the description definitely check that
out don't don't procrastinate on just
get it done okay maybe you got a family
member or so on just send them that link
just send them the link directly to the
money pickle site okay and the comment
of the day says nothing happens by
accident thank you very much for your
comment and everybody's comment as well
I do believe this the cycles that we are
running through today are intentional
it's not an accident oh we're so
incompetent we you know we we screwed up
it's not the case it really isn't and
we've seen that so many times before if
you enjoyed this video Simply hit that
thumbs up button when you do you're
notifying others out there that this is
an interesting one and you would like
others to see it as well simply click
that button to support me and last but
not least I want to see you here
tomorrow don't forget you got to make
sure you type in the money GPS and you
will be able to get the latest and
greatest I'll see you tomorrow take care